# Upgrade Seafile Docker

For maintenance upgrade, like from version 10.0.1 to version 10.0.4, just download the new image, stop the old docker container, modify the Seafile image version in docker-compose.yml to the new version, then start with docker compose up.

For major version upgrade, like from 10.0 to 11.0, see instructions below.

Please check the **upgrade notes** for any special configuration or changes before/while upgrading.

## Upgrade from 11.0 to 12.0 (In progress)

From Seafile Docker 12.0, we recommend that you use `.env` and `docker-compose.yml` files for configuration. Download [.env](https://manual.seafile.com/docker/docker-compose/ce/12.0/.env) and [docker-compose.yml](https://manual.seafile.com/docker/docker-compose/ce/12.0/docker-compose.yml), then modify .env file.

The following fields merit particular attention:

* The password of MySQL root (SEAFILE_MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD)
* The volume directory of MySQL data (SEAFILE_MYSQL_VOLUMES)
* The volume directory of Seafile data (SEAFILE_VOLUMES).

What's more, according to <https://manual.seafile.com/upgrade/upgrade_notes_for_12.0.x>

Start with docker compose up.

## Upgrade from 10.0 to 11.0

Download the new image, stop the old docker container, modify the Seafile image version in docker-compose.yml to the new version. Taking the [community edition](../docker/deploy_seafile_with_docker.md) as an example, you have to modify

```yml
...
service:
    ...
    seafile:
        image: seafileltd/seafile-mc:10.0-latest
        ...
    ...
```

to

```yml
service:
    ...
    seafile:
        image: seafileltd/seafile-mc:11.0-latest
        ...
    ...
```

 It is also recommended that you upgrade **mariadb** and **memcached** to newer versions as in the v11.0 docker-compose.yml file. Specifically, in version 11.0, we use the following versions:

- MariaDB: 10.11
- Memcached: 1.6.18

What's more, you have to migrate configuration for LDAP and OAuth according to <https://manual.seafile.com/upgrade/upgrade_notes_for_11.0.x>

Start with docker compose up.

## Upgrade from 9.0 to 10.0

Just download the new image, stop the old docker container, modify the Seafile image version in docker-compose.yml to the new version, then start with docker compose up.

If you are using pro edition with ElasticSearch, SAML SSO and storage backend features, follow the upgrading manual on how to update the configuration for these features: <https://manual.seafile.com/upgrade/upgrade_notes_for_10.0.x>

If you want to use the new notification server and rate control (pro edition only), please refer to the upgrading manual: <https://manual.seafile.com/upgrade/upgrade_notes_for_10.0.x>

## Upgrade from 8.0 to 9.0

Just download the new image, stop the old docker container, modify the Seafile image version in docker-compose.yml to the new version, then start with docker compose up.

### Let's encrypt SSL certificate

Since version 9.0.6, we use Acme V3 (not acme-tiny) to get certificate.

If there is a certificate generated by an old version, you need to back up and move the old certificate directory and the seafile.nginx.conf before starting.

```shell
mv /opt/seafile/shared/ssl /opt/seafile/shared/ssl-bak

mv /opt/seafile/shared/nginx/conf/seafile.nginx.conf /opt/seafile/shared/nginx/conf/seafile.nginx.conf.bak
```

Starting the new container will automatically apply a certificate.

```shell
docker compose down
docker compose up -d
```

Please wait a moment for the certificate to be applied, then you can modify the new seafile.nginx.conf as you want. Execute the following command to make the nginx configuration take effect.

```sh
docker exec seafile nginx -s reload
```

A cron job inside the container will automatically renew the certificate.

## Upgrade from 7.1 to 8.0

Just download the new image, stop the old docker container, modify the Seafile image version in docker-compose.yml to the new version, then start with docker compose up.

## Upgrade from 7.0 to 7.1

Just download the new image, stop the old docker container, modify the Seafile image version in docker-compose.yml to the new version, then start with docker compose up.
